British Prime Minister Theresa May executed a momentous climbdown in her Brexit strategy on Wednesday, requesting a three-month delay to Britain's departure from the EU and blaming lawmakers for the mess.
After promising on scores of occasions that Brexit would take place on March 29, May finally bowed to the inevitable consequence of her failure to secure the support of Parliament for her deal and asked the EU to extend the divorce process.
It was a striking admission of personal failure for a Prime Minister who had come to office on the promise of delivering the result of the divisive 2016 referendum.
But in a stern statement in Downing Street on Wednesday evening, May did not accept responsibility for the chaos, instead blaming Members of Parliament for failing to back her deal. She said the British public wanted them to "get on with it" and said it was "high time" for them to take a decision.
Calling the delay to Brexit a "matter of great personal regret," May said the British public "have had enough" and are tired of political infighting. "So far Parliament has done everything possible to avoid making a choice. All MPs have been willing to say is what they do not want," she said.
Earlier, May told the House of Commons she had written to European Council President Donald Tusk, asking for a three-month delay to Brexit, until June 30.
Tusk said in Brussels later that a short extension "should be possible," but on one condition -- that the UK Parliament passes May's Brexit deal. The Prime Minister told the House of Commons later that she intends to bring her twice-rejected deal back for third vote. "If that vote is passed, the extension will give the House time to consider the Withdrawal Agreement bill. If not, the House will have to decide how to proceed," May said.
Tusk acknowledged that May's proposed end date June 30 "creates a series of questions of a legal and political nature" that would have to be debated, he said.
Earlier on Wednesday Juncker hinted that leaders may be forced to put off a formal decision on May's request to another, emergency summit next week.
"We will probably have to meet again next week, because Mrs May has not got agreement for anything either in her Cabinet or her Parliament," he told German public broadcaster Deutschlandfunk on Wednesday.
Juncker also reiterated that the EU would not enter any more negotiations with the British Prime Minister. "We are not in a state of war with the UK, but a state of negotiation [and] the negotiations are finished," he said, according to PA. The US Air Force recently deployed six nuclear-capable B-52 bombers to Europe for "theater integration and flying training" exercises with regional allies and NATO partners -- a move viewed as sending a strong message to Russia, which is celebrating the five-year anniversary of its military annexation of Crimea.
A bomber task force of B-52 Stratofortresses, airmen and support equipment from the 2nd Bomb Wing based out of Barksdale Air Force Base, Louisiana, arrived at RAF Fairford late last week and has been participating in various training missions across Europe, according to the service.
On Monday, four B-52s "conducted flights to several places in Europe, including to the Norwegian Sea, the Baltic Sea/Estonia and the Mediterranean Sea/Greece," the Air Force said.
B-52 bombers from Andersen Air Force Base, Guam, and RAF Fairford have also conducted "simultaneous theater familiarization training in the Indo-Pacific and Europe" as bombers "flew north to an area east of the Kamchatka Peninsula," near Russia.
"Collectively, the flights from the Indo-Pacific and Europe demonstrated US commitment to allies and partners through the global employment of military forces," the Air Force said in a news release. Weighing 185,000 pounds, the B-52 first entered service in the 1950s during the height of the Cold War, originally designed to serve as long-range, high-altitude intercontinental nuclear bombers that could strike deep into the Soviet Union.
The newest B-52 entered service in 1962, and the 159-foot plane became a Cold War icon.
The planes have been modified heavily since the end of the Cold War and have been upgraded with precision-guided missiles, electronics and high-tech sensors. Each aircraft can carry up to 70,000 pounds of bombs, mines and missiles, according to the Air Force's official fact sheet.
Russia's actions and its detention of the Ukrainian sailors prompted President Donald Trump to cancel a planned meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin during the G-20 summit in Argentina last year.
Moscow has continued to ramp up its own military presence in the region, prompting the US to do the same.
But the top US commander in the region says it doesn't appear to be working. "The mendacity, the incompetence, it's just maddening to watch. The tweeting is just the way to get it out of the way, so I can get it off my chest and move on with my life that day. That's basically it. Frankly, it's so I don't end up screaming at her about it," he told the Post.
Trump also sought Wednesday to justify his Twitter bullying habits, slamming the media in the process.
"I think that Twitter is a way that I get out a word when I have a corrupt media," Trump said, while speaking to the gathered White House press, touting "over 100 million people" who follow him across social media platforms, which didn't account for duplicate follows and inactive accounts.
"It's a way that I can get honesty out because there's tremendous dishonesty with respect to the (media)," he said. "But you think he shouldn't respond when somebody, a non-medical professional accuses him of having a mental disorder? You think he should just take that sitting down?" she said.
"Don't play psychiatrist any more than George should be," she added. "You're not a psychiatrist and he's not, respectfully. "I have four kids and I was getting them out of the house this morning to talk to the President about substance so I may not be up to speed on all of them (his tweets)," she said Monday. While politically opposed couples are far from an oddity in Washington, it is unprecedented for a sitting president to publicly criticize an aide's spouse. Likewise, it is unprecedented for an aide's spouse to question the mental health of a sitting president.
Kellyanne Conway's allies, including Trump and his 2020 campaign manager Brad Parscale, fired back earlier this week, with the President calling him a "total loser."
Long a top Trump defender, she sided with her boss, telling reporters she did not share her husband's concerns that Trump's mental health is deteriorating Wednesday's tweet marks the first time Trump has publicly weighed in on the Conways' marriage. While George Conway has long been critical of Trump, attacks between the two ratcheted up this week when Conway questioned Trump's mental health, tweeting screengrabs of the medical definitions of narcissistic personality disorder and antisocial personality disorder from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.
The club continues to adopt imagery from the Crusades at games. Horsemen dressed in chainmail and carrying swords parade around the pitch, and captain Sam Whitelock plunged a ceremonial sword into the turf after last year's Super Rugby final victory.
"In terms of the Crusaders name, we understand the concerns that have been raised," CEO Colin Mansbridge said in a statement on the club's website on Sunday.
"For us, the Crusaders name is a reflection of the crusading spirit of this community. What we stand for is the opposite of what happened in Christchurch on Friday; our crusade is one for peace, unity, inclusiveness and community spirit.
"Emotions are very raw and real at the moment. There is the need for this community to wrap our support around those who are most affected by Friday's events, and that is the immediate focus for the Crusaders team.
"At an appropriate time, we will thoroughly consider the issues that have been raised and our response to that. That will include conversations with a range of people, including our Muslim community.
"This team and the wider organization are united with our community in standing against such abhorrent acts as that which occurred on Friday in Christchurch, and in standing in support of our Muslim brothers and sisters."
"Just sending my duas (supplication) to the families. Just sending my duas to your loved ones," said the Blues' center. "Inshallah you guys are all in paradise ... I'm just deeply saddened, saddened that this would happen in New Zealand."
Mourners in Christchurch paid tributes to victims of the attacks by performing renditions of the haka -- the Maori war dance performed by the All Blacks before each game but also used to pay respects at funerals.