It was the top of the third inning in the MLB regular-season opener between the Seattle Mariners and Oakland Athletics at the Tokyo Dome, and Mariners shortstop Tim Beckham reached first base on a single. But the roars from the crowd likely weren't all for him, as an all-time great was on deck. The applause rolled on, as fans pulled out their phones to capture images of Ichiro Suzuki making his way to the batter's box.
His stat line from Wednesday -- a pop out and a walk in a 9-7 Mariners win -- won't be remembered as much as the fans' adoration of a superstar.
The Mariners, in a tweet, had a single word: "Unforgettable." "Mr. Ichiro," Chicago Cubs pitcher Yu Darvish said in a recent story with ESPN, "is like a god in Japan."
Said Yankees pitcher Masahiro Tanaka, also quoted by ESPN: "He is a legend in Japan."
At 45 years, 149 days old, Ichiro is the oldest player on the Mariners Opening Day roster and the oldest position player to start an Opening Day in American League history.
However, after this two-game series in Japan concludes, it's unclear what Ichiro, entering his 19th season as a major leaguer, will do next. Last season, Ichiro returned to Seattle, his first major league team, and hit .205 in 15 games before he transitioned to the role of Special Assistant to the Chairman for the club. He struggled in this year's spring training, going 2-for-25 in 12 games.
But it's all but assured he will be honored one day in Cooperstown, New York, the home of the National Baseball Hall of Fame. And in the present, fans and players are soaking in his presence. Ichiro's pro debut came with the Orix Blue Wave of Japan's Pacific League on July 11, 1992, before six of his current Mariners teammates were born. He played in Japan from 1992-2000, winning three consecutive MVP awards and seven straight batting titles.
When he made the move to Seattle in 2001 -- becoming the first Japanese position player to sign with an MLB team -- Ichiro emphatically made his mark. He went on to win the American League MVP and Rookie of the Year awards that year, becoming just the second player ever to win both honors in the same season. In 2016, he reached rare company in MLB history when he recorded his 3,000th hit. To date, there are 32 players all time to have reached that mark. He ranks first in Mariners' franchise history in batting average, hits and steals. Overall, he has 4,367 hits between his career in Japan (1,278) and the Major Leagues (3,089).
Ichiro is one of seven players in MLB history with at least 3,000 hits and 500 stolen bases. The others are Lou Brock, Ty Cobb, Eddie Collins, Rickey Henderson, Paul Molitor and Honus Wagner.
On Wednesday, despite popping out to second on his opening at-bat, Ichiro received a nice ovation for his effort. He walked in his other plate appearance, which came in the fourth inning.
When he exited the game from right field later that inning, he received more love from the crowd, as a smiling Ichiro received several hugs from this teammates while A's players applauded from the opposing dugout. Down in the camera well, another baseball legend, Hall of Famer and Mariners great Ken Griffey Jr., was in attendance, seen taking photos of the Japanese superstar. With Wednesday's start, Ichiro became the third player to make 13 Opening Day starts with the Mariners, joining Griffey (13) and another Hall of Famer in Edgar Martinez (15).
With Ichiro and Yusei Kikuchi being named to Seattle's roster, the Mariners have had a Japanese-born player on their active roster in 22 consecutive seasons, dating back to 1998. No longer a season reserved for retirees and backpackers, the world's low-cost carriers, burgeoning tourism development budgets and dare we say, Instagram, have put never-before-considered spring break destinations on this year's map. Here are 19 of our favorites, in alphabetical order. Reading of this latest whale, I remembered a shark I had seen swimming with its flesh growing around a plastic packing strap. I remembered the drifting net with a dead sailfish tangled in it. Turtles with missing flippers caused by entanglements. An albatross trying to feed her chick while coughing up a toothbrush, and dead chicks full of plastic jar-lids and lighters. I recalled the first time I saw plastic on a coral reef -- and tried to remember the last time I did not. I flashed back on plastic-strewn beaches of Alaska and the mid-Pacific, of Hawaii, of Africa. Some say we are in a new time, a human-dominated world dubbed the Anthropocene. In my travels among the world's remaining wild lives and wild places I too often see not just a human-dominated planet but a miracle being ruined. A better name for our time might be the Obs-cene. If that doesn't happen we can expect ever-more plastic in the bodies of ever-more of the world's beleaguered, ailing, toxified creatures; a list that will increasingly include us. That dead whale is telling us, loud and clear, that action on plastic is overdue. Grieving and frightened, just days after her son's death she checked her Facebook page hoping to read messages of comfort from family and friends.
Instead, she found dozens of hateful comments: You're a terrible mother. You killed your child. You deserved what happened to your son. This is all fake - your child doesn't exist.
Bewildered and rattled, she closed her Facebook app.
A few days later she received a text message from someone named Ron. Expect more like this, Ron warned. Expect more.
The attacks were from those who oppose vaccination, and this mother, who lives in the Midwest, doesn't want her name used for fear the attention would only encourage more messages. Interviews with mothers who've lost children and with those who spy on anti-vaccination groups, reveal a tactic employed by anti-vaxers: When a child dies, members of the group sometimes encourage each other to go on that parent's Facebook page. The anti-vaxers then post messages telling the parents they're lying and their child never existed, or that the parent murdered them, or that vaccines killed the child, or some combination of all of those.
Nothing is considered too cruel. Just days after their children died, mothers say anti-vaxers on social media called them whores, the c-word and baby killers.
The mother in the Midwest, who wants to remain anonymous, isn't alone.
Jill Promoli, who lives outside Toronto, lost her son to flu. She believes the anti-vaxers are trying to silence the very people who can make the strongest argument for vaccinations: those whose children died of vaccine-preventable illnesses.