US Justice Department prosecutors have issued multiple subpoenas as part of an investigation into Boeing's Federal Aviation Administration certification and marketing of 737 Max planes, sources briefed on the matter told CNN.
The criminal investigation, which is in its early stages, began after the October 2018 crash of a 737 Max aircraft operated by Lion Air in Indonesia, the sources said. Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao on Tuesday asked the agency's inspector general to investigate the Max certification.
Criminal investigators have sought information from Boeing on safety and certification procedures, including training manuals for pilots, along with how the company marketed the new aircraft, the sources said.
It's not yet clear what possible criminal laws could be at issue in the probe. Among the things the investigators are looking into is the process by which Boeing itself certified the plane as safe, and the data it presented the FAA about that self-certification, the sources said.
The FBI Seattle office and Justice Department's criminal division in Washington are leading the investigation. The divide has at times drawn Trump's ire -- "He's just trying to get publicity for himself," he told reporters in November -- yet the split persists.
This weekend, as Trump was lobbing his own Twitter invective in all directions, George Conway responded with screengrabs showing the medical definitions of narcissistic personality disorder and antisocial personality disorder from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. Perhaps unsurprisingly, that sentiment was not repeated by the half of the Conway couple that works inside the White House."I have four kids and I was getting them out of the house this morning to talk to the President about substance so I may not be up to speed on all of them (his tweets)," she told reporters on the White House North Lawn after appearing on Fox News.
Trump himself has rebuffed mental health questions in the past. When questions about his acuity arose after author Michael Wolff published an account that depicted the President as unhinged, the President responded by calling himself a "very stable genius."
Seeking to quiet the claims of mental decline, Trump also insisted his physician administer a cognitive exam during his annual physical in 2018. The doctor, White House physician Dr. Ronny Jackson, later told reporters he scored perfectly.
Trump did not take the test this year, at least according to a readout of his physical from his doctor.
She didn't go further, though George Conway has said before that his wife does not appreciate the public Trump criticism he's taken to on Twitter.
"I don't think she likes it," he told host Michael Isikoff on the Yahoo News podcast "Skullduggery" in November. "But I've told her, I don't like the administration, so it's even."
He also noted they aren't the only Washington couple who disagree on politics.
It wasn't always that way; George Conway, a conservative lawyer, was once under consideration for a top job in Trump's Justice Department. He later withdrew from consideration. He's been deeply critical of Trump's handling of the Justice Department, particular in the time when the President publicly fumed against his then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
And he's offered periodic views of the ongoing investigation into whether members of Trump's campaign colluded with Russia during the 2016 presidential election. "Of all the ugliness in politics, the utter disrespect George Conway shows toward his wife, her career, place of work, and everything she has fought SO hard to achieve, might top them all," he wrote.
The President himself has taken a more lighthearted approach. Asked about a particular critique George Conway issued in November, Trump made clear where his allegiance stood.
"You mean Mr. Kellyanne Conway?" he asked.